# EasyAudioTool
GDV Audio Tool 


Documentation
How to use:
1.	Import EasyAudioTool.unitypackage and import the package. Make sure all components are selected.
2.	Click Window and click Easy Audio Tool
    Note: If you prefer not to use the Easy Audio Tool window, you can drag the Audio Manager script “Easy Audio Tool/AudioManager.cs” onto the desired game object. Then proceed to step 5.
3.	Click Generate Audio Manager. 
    Note: If you want to add the audio manager component to an existing object, select it in the Easy Audio Tool window and press ‘Add Audio Manager Component to Game Object’
4.	Look for AudioManager in the scene hierarchie
5.	Drag the player game object onto the Player input field
Note: If the Player Game Object is called ‘Player’ or has the ‘Player’ tag, the tool will fill in this variable at runtime, but we recommend to manually select the player game object.
6.	If you want to play audio when clicking on an object, increase the Interact Range to a suitable value. It is recommended to make your own crosshair or enable Show Crosshair to spawn a simple dot on the screen for the player to see when to click.  
7.	Expand Audio Contents and click on the plus (+) icon to start adding audio.  
8.	Choose the wanted start type (read ‘Start Type Explenation’ below).
    Drag the Game Object for audio playback onto the Game Object input field.
    Drag the audio clip onto the audio clip input field.
    Ajust the volume when needed
    Note: If the game object has no Audio Source as a component, the tool will automatically add the component at runtime at the center of the object. Provide your own audio source when needed.
9.	Repeat step 7 and 8 untill all audio is added and functioning 
10.	Click on an element in Audio Contents and press the minus (-) icon to remove the element.
11.	The audio should work when you press play or build the game

Start Type Explenation:
-	On Click: This audio will play when the player clicks the left mouse button 
-	On Collision: This audio will play when the player collides with a solid object (with a collider on it).
-	On Trigger Volume: This audio will play when the player enters a collider with the IsTrigger box checked. This can be used for entering new areas.










Easy Audio Tool error messages:

Missing: No Game Object Selected
There is no Game Object selected in the audio tool and there is no audio manager found in the active scene. Click Generate Audio Manager to solve this issue.

Missing: No Audio Manager Component on Game Object
There is no Audio Manager Component on the object you selected. Made sure you select the correct game object. If you want to add the Audio Manager Component to this Game Object, press “Add Audio Manager Component to Game Object”.

Warning:", "No Game Object named 'Player' or with tag 'Player' exists, please drag the player Game Object onto the 'AudioManager' component on the Game Object in your scene."
You do not have a player set in the Audio Manager. Please go to the Audio Manager component on the Game Object selected and drag your player onto the Player input field to solve this issue.

Game Object has no Audio Source.
This is not an issue. This is meant for debugging.
If you want to remove this you can remove the code in PlayerAudioComponent.cs at line 99 and 84.

AudioClip on the AudioManager Component on Game Object has a volume of zero and will not be heard. Increase the volume if this is unintentional.
This is a warning if there is an audio clip with volume 0. Change the volume if this is not intended.
Less common issues:
No player recognized in the Audio Manager script on the Game Object!
There is no Player specified in the Player input field on the Audio Manager component, and there is no gameobject called Player or with tag Player in the active scene. Please drag your player onto the player input field.
Note: A Game Object called “Player_AutoGenerated” will be made at runtime when this error occurs, so the script will not crash.

No Gameobject on the AudioManager component on the Game Object
There is an element in the Audio Manager that is missing a Game Object. Please provide one or remove the element.

No AudioClip on the AudioManager component on the Game Object
There is an element in the Audio Manager that is missing an Audio Clip. Please provide one or remove the element.

Crosshair is enabled in the AudioManager Component on the Game Object, but the Crosshair canvas could not be spawned. Make sure the CrosshairCanvas prefab is in the Resources folder within the Audio Tool folder.
There is no CrosshairCanvas.prefab in “/Easy Audio Tool/Resources”, please reimport the package or disable Use Crosshair.


Access AudioManager from code:
Add audio component:
AudioManager.Instance.AddAudio(GameObject target, AudioContents audioContents);

Play audio:
AudioManager.Instance.PlayAudio(GameObject target, StartType startType);
